README.md, before:

# Cross-Platform Vst Host

## General Idea
Since I found that there are not many easy-to-use command-line based VST Hosts, and some of them are no longer supported,
 I always wanted to create my own cmd VST Host. Unfortunately, I also found that samples provided in VST 3 SDK are way 
to complicated for me to use, so I decided to created my own easy-to-use repository. Thus, the main goal of this project
 is to learn how to work with VST 3 SDK, how to create custom VST Host and handler VST 3 Plugins. During the work on 
cmd-based VST Host I found out that it would be also a good idea to learn how to read audio from audio endpoint on 
different operation systems like Windows, Linux, MacOS and Android and process audio in real time with VST Host. So that 
is why this repository was created. I know that it will take a lot of work but it will also be a good way to learn about
 everything that I'm interested in. My idea here was also to use as many available elements as it is possible.

## Features list
1. Platform Agnostic Features
    - Implemented:
      - [x] CMake based project
      - [x] Use submodules
      - [x] Arg Parser
      - [X] Json Reader 
      - [x] Treat Warnings as Errors
      - [x] VST Host library in C++
      - [x] VST Host Offline Tool in C++
      - [x] Unit Test for library and offline tool in C++
      - [x] CI
      - [x] VST Host Library with C api that allows to use it in e.g. Python
      - [x] Basic python unit test for c api
      - [x] Allow to use multiple plugins and configs for them
    - TODO:
      - [ ] Add more advanced python-based Vst Host Lib utilization
      - [ ] Clean up UT for python
      - [ ] Integrate better wave reader 
      - [ ] Clean up code in vst host lib
      - [ ] Generate Documentation
      - [ ] Add document with useful links
      - [ ] Create one data structure for all parameters related with multiple plugins
      - [ ] Build solution for ARM

1. Windows OS

    - Implemented:
      - [x] Basic code for Audio Endpoint Reader
    - TODO:
      - [ ] Clean up audio endpoint reader and utilize it in code (add queue, use it for processing with vst plugin etc)

1. Linux

    - TODO:
      - [ ] Add endpoint reader

1. Android

    - TODO:
      - [ ] Add endpoint reader
      - [ ] Enable UT
      - [ ] Add platform specific offline tool
      - [ ] Add CI
      - [ ] Add documentation how to setup env to build code

1. Mac OS

    - TODO: 
      - [ ] Add endpoint reader


## Credits 
1. [VST 3 SDK](https://github.com/steinbergmedia/vst3sdk)
1. [Google Test](https://github.com/google/googletest)
1. [Logger](https://github.com/amrayn/easyloggingpp)
1. [Arg Parser](https://github.com/p-ranav/argparse)
1. [Wave Reader](https://github.com/audionamix/wave)
1. [C ++ Json Handler](https://github.com/nlohmann/json)
1. [Windows Endpoint Reader](https://github.com/mofo7777/Stackoverflow/tree/master/WasapiCapture)

VST is a trademark held by Steinberg Media Technologies, GMBH.

## License
This project is licensed under the terms of the GNU GPLv3 license. Moreover, it is a derivative work of the original 
VST 3 SDK. However, I don't not redistribute any of the original source code.

Commit message:

Task rinoreyns ww19 22 integrate ut for android lib (#10)
Enable android CI with UT

README.md, after:

# Cross-Platform Vst Host

## General Idea
Since I found that there are not many easy-to-use command-line based VST Hosts, and some of them are no longer supported,
 I always wanted to create my own cmd VST Host. Unfortunately, I also found that samples provided in VST 3 SDK are way 
to complicated for me to use, so I decided to created my own easy-to-use repository. Thus, the main goal of this project
 is to learn how to work with VST 3 SDK, how to create custom VST Host and handler VST 3 Plugins. During the work on 
cmd-based VST Host I found out that it would be also a good idea to learn how to read audio from audio endpoint on 
different operation systems like Windows, Linux, MacOS and Android and process audio in real time with VST Host. So that 
is why this repository was created. I know that it will take a lot of work but it will also be a good way to learn about
 everything that I'm interested in. My idea here was also to use as many available elements as it is possible.

## Features list
1. Platform Agnostic Features
    - Implemented:
      - [x] CMake based project
      - [x] Use submodules
      - [x] Arg Parser
      - [X] Json Reader 
      - [x] Treat Warnings as Errors
      - [x] VST Host library in C++
      - [x] VST Host Offline Tool in C++
      - [x] Unit Test for library and offline tool in C++
      - [x] CI for each configuration
      - [x] VST Host Library with C api that allows to use it in e.g. Python
      - [x] Basic python unit test for c api
      - [x] Allow to use multiple plugins and configs for them
    - TODO:
      - [ ] Add more advanced python-based Vst Host Lib utilization
      - [ ] Clean up UT for python
      - [ ] Add more UT for python and Android
      - [ ] Integrate better wave reader 
      - [ ] Clean up code in vst host lib
      - [ ] Generate Documentation
      - [ ] Create one data structure for all parameters related with multiple plugins
      - [ ] Build solution for ARM
      - [ ] Add documentation how to setup env to build code

1. Windows OS

    - Implemented:
      - [x] Basic code for Audio Endpoint Reader
    - TODO:
      - [ ] Clean up audio endpoint reader and utilize it in code (add queue, use it for processing with vst plugin etc)

1. Linux

    - TODO:
      - [ ] Add endpoint reader

1. Android

    - TODO:
      - [ ] Add endpoint reader
      - [ ] Add platform specific offline tool

1. Mac OS

    - TODO: 
      - [ ] Add endpoint reader


## Credits (repositories used in project)
1. [VST 3 SDK](https://github.com/steinbergmedia/vst3sdk)
1. [Google Test](https://github.com/google/googletest)
1. [Logger](https://github.com/amrayn/easyloggingpp)
1. [Arg Parser](https://github.com/p-ranav/argparse)
1. [Wave Reader](https://github.com/audionamix/wave)
1. [C ++ Json Handler](https://github.com/nlohmann/json)
1. [Windows Endpoint Reader](https://github.com/mofo7777/Stackoverflow/tree/master/WasapiCapture)

VST is a trademark held by Steinberg Media Technologies, GMBH.

## License
This project is licensed under the terms of the GNU GPLv3 license. Moreover, it is a derivative work of the original 
VST 3 SDK. However, I don't not redistribute any of the original source code.

## Useful links
1. [How to read data from audio endpoint (Windows, Linux, MacOS)?](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/blob/main/articles/cognitive-services/Speech-Service/how-to-select-audio-input-devices.md)
1. [Audio Capture on Windows](https://graphics.stanford.edu/~mdfisher/Code/Engine/AudioCapture.cpp)
1. [Treat warnings as errors on linux](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3378560/how-to-disable-gcc-warnings-for-a-few-lines-of-code)
1. [More info about treating warnings as errors](https://www.foonathan.net/2018/10/cmake-warnings/)
1. [How to build c++ code for Android?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67729247/build-cmake-library-without-android-studio-by-command-line-or-gui/67729248#67729248)
1. [How to use c++ .so on Android?](https://github.com/android/ndk-samples/tree/master/hello-libs)
